## Understanding

IP packet can be fragmented when passing network with smaller MTU than required by the payload. This a fragment can be further
fragemented and so all. 

When these fragments arrive at destination, they are reassembled. If any of these fragments get lost, retransmission must be 
peformed from scratch. That is a reason why TCP/IP stack try to avoid it by using mechanism called Path MTU discovery.

The identification number of IP packet along with fragment offset in unit of 8 bytes is used (so it can address 16 bit 
length IP packet).

Because fragments can arrive destination at different order, the IP layer only wait until timeout specified in 
`/proc/sys/net/ipv4/ipfrag_time` (30 seconds by default) before discard received fragments of a particular packet's identification.

**Miss association**

The packet identification is only 16 bits so it can be wrapped quite quicky on high speed transmission resulting in mis association and if checksum on upper protocols like udp and tcp is not resilient enough then corrupted data can be delivered to the application. see https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4963.

**TCP MSS**

To avoid IP fragmentation, parties of TCP protocol exchange Maximum Segment Size so other can decide size of segment to be sent. 
**Path MTU discovery**

PMTU is min of all MTU along the path from source to destination. By default linux enable PMTU for stream socket. If enabled as socket option in non stream socket (e.g. udp), sending packet larger the PMTU will result in `EMSGSIZE`. 

    $ cat /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_no_pmtu_disc
    0

As PMTU discovery rely heavily on ICMP generated by router that reports next hop's MTU, restrict that ICMP by firewall or giving zero as next hops's MTU can cause problem.


